Aeneans
SPOILER ALERT!  While this entire Wiki contains spoilers, this particular article contains MAJOR SPOILERS for all books.


The Aeneans are the followers of Aenea who have received her DNA Sacrament and adopted her philosophy. Their civilization emerged after the end of the catholic Pax triggered by the Aenean Shared Moment. They are described as something like post-human gods due to their binding powers of The Void Which Binds.

Contents

1 Way of Life
2 Technological Achievements
3 See Also
4 References


Way of Life
The Aeneans are highly empathic and wish to spread Aenea's teachings and DNA Sacrament all over the universe. They give the option of joining them to all humans they encounter. Still, they stay true to Aenea's paramount in her thoughts of no veneration or beatification or adoration. The Aeneans do not practice a cult of Aenea.
Because they follow Aenea's way of looking at the evolution of life (She taught that evolution had a direction and determination, she spoke of a day when all the universe would be green with life. Diversity, she taught, is one of evolution's best strategies,) the Aeneans naturally wish to spread life and diversity everywhere in the universe, even beyond human colonized space. They want to pass up their gift of godhood. To serve this purpose, they have helped a thousand small cultures cast off from human space into the unknown, like they did for the Amoiete Spectrum Helix people with building for them the Helix starship, in the Orphans of the Helix novella.

Technological Achievements
The Aeneans have developed a modified Hawking drive which harms the fabric of The Void Which Binds thousands of times less than the old Hegemony or Pax ships.
Their medicine is more advanced than it was at the time of the Hegemony. They can greatly increase an individual's life span, without resorting to the Poulsen treatment.
They rebuilt, repopulated and repopularized the ancient hegemonian capital TC², turning it into an idealized rural place for their civilization.
The Aeneans seem to have partnered with some AIs left autonomous after the breakup of the TechnoCore.
Due to their ability to freecast, the Aeneans do not travel by spacecraft. But they still build huge starships for other civilizations.
See Also
Orphans of the Helix novella
Aenea
References

↑ Orphans of the Helix, 2002.

↑ 2.0 2.1 Orphans of the Helix, 2002. Ces Ambre, to Far Rider.

↑ Orphans of the Helix, 2002. Dem Lia, to Saigyô.

↑ Orphans of the Helix, 2002. Theorized by Dem Lia, and verified afterwards at the end of the novella.

↑ Orphans of the Helix, 2002. According to Dem Lia.

↑ Orphans of the Helix, 2002. Sagiô, to Patek Georg: Ces Ambre is 95 standard years old, but thanks to Aenean medicine her physical appearance and mental capabilities are of a woman in her early sixties. Yet, Ces Ambre is never described to have the Poulsen characteristic blueish hue on her skin.

↑ Orphans of the Helix, 2002. The Helix starship, built by the Aeneans, is managed by five AIs: Saigyô, Lady Murasaki, Ikkyû, Basho, and Ryôkan.