Brawne Lamia
Brawne Lamia is one of the main characters in the Hyperion story line, being one of the Seven Pilgrims that undertake the Final Shrike Pilgrimage.  She is a private investigator from the industrial, high-gravity planet of Lusus. She is the the daughter of belated Senator Byron Lamia, who worked closely with Senate CEO Meina Gladstone before Gladstone took office. Brawne's mother has become somewhat reclusive, choosing to only rarely leave their summer place on Freeholm. Brawne visits with her mother every Christmas Fest.[1]

Contents

1 Biography
2 Trivia
3 See Also
4 References


Biography
SPOILER ALERT! The section(s) below are MAJOR SPOILERS.Brawne became a private investigator after her father’s apparent suicide, rather than going into politics. In the role of private investigator, Brawne is approached by a man simply known as "Johnny" to investigate his own murder. Johnny is a cybrid - an AI in human body controlled by a TechnoCore entity, which in this case, is the reconstructed personality of the famous 19th century romantic poet John Keats. The "Murder" actually only involved his cybrid body being disconnected from the core briefly and the removal of a few days of memory, though his AI personality was nearly immediately restored to full integration with his body. After spending some time with Johnny she becomes romantically involved with him resulting in her pregnancy, and the eventual birth of Aenea. 
The murder case investigation leads Brawne Lamia and Johnny to the planet of Hyperion, however Johnny is killed before he is able to transit to the outback world. To travel to Hyperion Brawne joins the final Shrike pilgrimage.
Brawne died approximately 12 years after the Fall, on the planet of Hyperion.
She is described as a rather short and muscular with an intense gaze. She has shoulder-length black curls, dark eyes, sharp nose and wide expressive mouth. She is said to be very beautiful.

Trivia
Brawne Lamia’s name comes from a combination of John Keats’ beloved Fanny Brawne, and his poem named Lamia (1819).
See Also
Aenea
Joseph Severn (cybrid) / Johnny
Schrön loop
Final Shrike Pilgrimage
References

↑ Hyperion, 1989. Chapter 5