Freeholm
Contents

1 Description
2 Military Importance
3 Universities
4 Miscellaneous Facts
5 References


Description
Freehold is a world and a planet that was part of the WorldWeb during the Web Era, though it was considered a backwater province . The landscape of the planet was primarily flat consisting of extensive steppes, including the Great Steppe that is described as "smooth as a billiard table". In Autumn, terrible storms would hit the world. The inhabited areas we also subject to plentiful tornadoes. The sky was blood-red, at least during the storms. The tornadoes and storm clouds would turn the horizon black. 
The gravity in Freeholm was low: one-sixth g. A local month was around 26 days. 

Military Importance
It seems that Freehold was home to significant Hegemony military presence: Colonel Fedmahn Kassad stood before a FORCE court-martial review on Freeholm after his decision to assassinate the New Prophet on Qom-Riyadh during a pronouncement broadcast to the entire planet.  Plus, the planet had a FORCE:ground base from which troops were dispatched to contain  Shrike Church rebellions on Lusus. 
Additionally, Rhadamanth Nemes claims to have trained on Freeholm when speaking with Sergeant Gregorius, who acknowledged the low-g military training provided in the planet.
Freeholm was targeted in the second wave of massive assaults upon the Hegemony that preceded the Fall. 

Universities
Freehold also seems to be an academic and medical center. Rachel Weintraub went to Reichs University on Freeholm for twenty-eight local months for her graduate studies. The Freeholm Med Center attempted to help Rachel with her Merlin Sickness. 
Dr. Melio Arundez worked at Reichs University on Freeholm, Rachel being his pupil there. The university had a famous classic and ancient artifact archaeology department. 

Miscellaneous Facts
Brawne Lamia’s mother was from Freehold and had a summer house there.  The Brawne family’s estate on the planet consisted of 10 million acres of short grass, protected by a containment bubble. 
Aenea dropped off one of her followers, Janusz Kurtyka, on Freeholm in preparation for the Shared Moment.

References

↑ 1.0 1.1 Hyperion, 1995, Ch. 5

↑ 2.0 2.1 The Fall of Hyperion, 1995, Ch. 33

↑ 3.0 3.1 Endymion, 1995, Ch. 49

↑ Hyperion, 1995, Ch. 2

↑ The Fall of Hyperion, 1995, Ch. 32

↑ The Fall of Hyperion, 1995, Ch. 24

↑ Hyperion, 1995, Ch. 4

↑ Hyperion, 1995, Ch. 4

↑ The Rise of Endymion, 1995, Ch. 29