Hyperion (novel)
Hyperion


Author
Dan Simmons


Publication date
1989


Awards
Hugo Award (1990)Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1990)


Followed by
The Fall of Hyperion


Hyperion is a Hugo Award-winning science fiction novel written in 1989 by author Dan Simmons. It is the first of four books set in the fictional Hyperion universe. Over a thousand years into the future, humankind has conquered the space travel and colonized hundreds of worlds in this arm of the Milky Way. The novel then tells the story of seven individuals of different backgrounds whom are chosen to travel to the Outback planet of Hyperion as pilgrims on the Final Shrike Pilgrimage to the mysterious, ancient Time Tombs wherein lives a creature of extreme power, the Shrike.
As the Seven Pilgrims brave the perils and surprises of their journey on the labyrinthine world, each of them in order tell their Tales to the others, detailing their backgrounds and motives, in order to learn the reasons for which they were chosen for this Final Pilgrimage.
According to the novel's author, Dan Simmons, the novel Hyperion and the subsequent book, The Fall of Hyperion, are meant to be read as a single story.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Main Characters
3 Supporting Characters
4 Featured Locations
5 Plot Summary
6 External Links
7 Book Covers Gallery
8 References


Synopsis
On the world called Hyperion, beyond the law of the Hegemony of Man, there waits the creature called the Shrike. There are those who worship it. There are those who fear it. And there are those who have vowed to destroy it. In the Valley of the Time Tombs, where huge, brooding structures move backward through time, the Shrike waits for them all. On the eve of Armageddon, with the entire galaxy at war, seven pilgrims set forth on a final voyage to Hyperion seeking the answers to the unsolved riddles of their lives. Each carries a desperate hope--and a terrible secret. And one may hold the fate of humanity in his hands.

Main Characters
Father Lenar Hoyt | Colonel Fedmahn Kassad | Martin Silenus | Captain Het Masteen | Sol Weintraub | Brawne Lamia | The Consul

Supporting Characters
Meina Gladstone | Theo Lane | Rachel Weintraub | Sarai Weintraub | Father Paul Duré | Moneta | Sad King Billy | Melio Arundez | Johnny | BB Surbringer | Siri | Merin

Featured Locations
Hyperion | Old Earth | Lusus | Bressia | Maui-Covenant | Tau Ceti Center

Plot Summary
Main article: Hyperion Plot Summary
The story starts in medias res, whith the former Hegemony Consul to the planet Hyperion. The CEO, Meina Gladstone invites him to join the last Shrike Pilgrimage to the planet Hyperion.
The story covers the fate of the seven pilgrims on their way to the mysterious Time Tombs, while they share their story with each other, in the hope that they will realize what forces brought them to the very last pilgrimage.

External Links
Hyperion on Wikipedia | Hyperion at Worlds Without End | Hyperion on Amazon

Book Covers Gallery

References

↑ From the 1995 paperback edition.