Vitus-Gray-Balianus B
Contents

1 Description
2 Localities
3 Aenean Era
4 References


Description
Vitus-Gray-Balianus B is a desert world that was once part of the Hegemony-era WorldWeb. In the centuries following the Fall, it was colonized by the Amoiete Spectrum Helix, who had emigrated from the world Inevitable Grace. It was part of the River Tethys circuit, where the river was lined by the Amoiete's adobe-style houses huddled together. Water would be syphoned away from the river to irrigate the extensive green fields. Despite being a desert planet, the Amoiete developed extensive, huge farms on the world that fed its population. The river in that area served as the "main street" - bustling with countless types of barges, rafts and vehicles, and it was a very long river that extended from the north pole to the equator.
The planet had very light gravity - about less than two-thirds of Old Earth's. It was located only 14 light-years away from Old Earth system. Raul Endymion described the world as similar Mars with warmer, thicker air and more of a stench of death and cordite to it.
Vitus-Gray-Balianus B has two moons, which occasionally line up in a double eclipse of the planet's sun; this event is called the "Twice Darkness," and is celebrated with trumpeting and fireworks by the people of the Amoiete Spectrum Helix. 
After Aenea's teachings and sacrament arrived at Vitus with refugees from Sibiatu's Bitterness, the Amoiete people led the fight against the Pax, which for a moment resulted in a brief period of peace, a treaty with Pax Base Bombasino, and even the accepting of the DNA Sacrament by many Pax troopers.
Aenea dropped off the Dorje Phamo on Vitus in preparation for the Shared Moment.

Localities
Bombasino
Lock Childe Lamonde (a village along the river canal)
Keroa Tambat
Aenean Era
SPOILER ALERT! The section(s) below are MAJOR SPOILERS.
The world was eventually completely abandoned by all the remaining Amoiete Spectrum Helix people that refused to become Aenean, as told in the novella Orphans of the Helix.

References

↑ The Rise of Endymion, 1995, Ch. 21

↑ Endymion, 1995, Ch. 6

↑ Worlds Enough & Time, 2002, 73-130

↑ The Rise of Endymion, 1995, Ch. 29